---
layout: post
title: i as the player
date: 2019-11-12
description: some seeds of my current life outlooks; i am not a goal-driven person
tags: reflections
categories: short
---

Life, and the lives we choose, is the accumulation of our own choices, kind of like in a role playing or “choose your own adventure” game. Everything you do has a consequence, and sometimes it might be clear and sometimes it might not. But having played these games, I no longer choose the “optimal” route. I don’t like looking up playthroughs and guides and optimal strategies. I want to discover this game, this life, for myself. Gaming the system is a boring fucking life. Instead of planning out my whole Pokémon team beforehand like I used to, I want to challenge myself with a nuzlocke. Instead of looking up what each choice in Life is Strange will lead to, I just want to go into it blind and see where it will take me. Perhaps I have more freedom in games to do that, because after all, it’s “just a game”. But really, life is the same concept. I don’t want to live a boring fucking life. Even if it means taking risks and losses, I want to live a life that’s exciting. A life without mistakes is boring as hell. And even if I’m giving up material success, what difference does that make? What am I really going to do with a ton of excess wealth? It’s like when you use a loophole or hack in the game to get a bunch of in-game currency, but then you don’t know what to do with it besides a bunch of useless accessories. It’s pointless and it takes away from the real experience of the game. I guess the only difference here between life and a game is that in real life, wealth and “success” also give social validation. But you, you aren’t the type to chase after that, are you?

The point of a game isn’t to beat it as fast as possible. It’s to struggle through it, savor the graphics, jam along to the music, talk to all the characters, kick ass in all the side quests, and reflect on the story. It’s about the experiences you gain and the memories you make, not the end goal you seem to be working so hard for. 

And if the mistakes lead to sorrow, then that’s okay, too. Sorrow does make life more beautiful, as long as there is happiness with it.