---
layout: post
title: a quote from my favorite short story
date: 2019-08-29
description: from "the snows of kilimanjaro" by ernest hemingway
tags: quotes
categories: short
---

i've read "the snows of kilimanjaro" several times, and i think its themes really touch the core of who i am. i am not a sellout

<blockquote>
    <em>Now he would never write the things that he had saved to write until he knew enough to write them well. Well, he would not have to fail at trying to write them either. Maybe you could never write them, and that was why you put them off and delayed the starting. Well he would never know, now. <br><br>

    But, in yourself, you said that you would write about these people; about the very rich; that you were really not of them but a spy in their country; that you would leave it and write of it and for once it would be written by someone who knew what he was writing of. But he would never do it, because each day of not writing, of comfort, of being that which he despised, dulled his ability and softened his will to work so that, finally, he did no work at all.</em>
</blockquote>

 and there is beauty in chasing something spectacular and fantastical that only i can see; i romanticize the tragic artist
 <blockquote>
    <em>Kilimanjaro is a snow-covered mountain 19,710 feet high, and is said to be the highest mountain in Africa. Its western summit is called the Masai "Ngje Ngi," the House of God. Close to the western summit there is the dried and frozen carcass of a leopard. No one has explained what the leopard was seeking at that altitude.</em>
</blockquote>

of course there is much more to this short story; i can't stress enough how much i like it