---
layout: post
title: gender, identity, and physics
date: 2022-12-30
description: what gender and diversity mean to me in relation to my academic interests
tags: me-things reflections
categories: medium
---

oh, identity. identity identity identity. the age-old question of <em>who am i?</em> that every adolescent (or person, rather) has an existential crisis about at some point in their lives. i think i have a decent grasp on it now, as a college sophomore: i am chinese-american, queer, a woman (loosely), a physicist(-in-training), and a lot of other things, too. i also know who i'd like to be, such as a writer, a good person, an idealist, etc. 

sometimes i realize that i often take knowing these things for granted. because there was a time in which i didn't know any of these things, and that time was not so long ago. back in high school, not only was i deep in the closet, i also couldn’t see myself as a physicist, or physicist-in-training, or even any kind of physics or math <em>person</em>, because i couldn't see see myself in anyone else. all of my spaces were male-dominated. at the physics club at school, at the after school math circle, and even in the online video game spaces that i logged into late at night, it always felt as though i had a giant sticky note on my back that loudly proclaimed my gender. most (and i say most) people weren't even actively malicious. but for some reason, i never felt like i belonged anywhere i wanted to belong to. and i don't know how much of it was real, thinly-veiled condescension, how much of it was the social and familial environment i was raised in, and how much of it was my own internalized misogyny telling me that i would never be good enough—that i would never be one of "the boys", and that the best i could do was occupy a niche of being the girl that does boy things. and so i tried to do that. i tried to be the girl who was <em>not like the other girls</em>, because i like physics and math and video games, and i pushed away the feminine side of myself. i didn't really know what it was like to gossip and go shopping with the girls and do my makeup and obsess over selfie angles and wear crop tops and be vulnerable and dramatic until i graduated from high school; i had dismissed all these things as beneath me, and in doing so, i deprived myself of a genuine and beautiful part of me that has since given me so much joy.

the problem is, and always was, about <em><b>identity</b></em>. the communities i wanted to be in, the upperclassmen i admired, the brilliant physicists in my textbooks—no one looked like me. i idolized and envied those who pursued physics because i was not them, and it viscerally felt as though i could never be. i was someone who <em>tried</em> to do physics. at the end of the day, no matter how much i tried to push it away, i was a girl.

so, what happened between now and then? a lot of things, honestly. while progress was non-linear, going to college was a huge help. i guess they were right when they said that college is where you discover yourself. i met for the first time people who were vocally open-minded about gender, and it changed my perspective of my gender completely. it's so freeing to frame my gender more as an active choice of how i'd like to identify myself, rather than some arbitrary suffocating label that i was assigned at birth. and i never thought i'd join a sorority, but i ended up joining one, and now i even live in my sorority's house (shoutout to delta phi epsilon!). i met so many incredible women who were able to understand me in ways that i realize now that only women could. thanks to them, i now have the community and feeling of belonging that i wanted so badly in high school. and maybe most importantly, i met a lot of people who love physics from all sorts of different backgrounds—physicists who don't "look like physicists", whatever that means. i took classes with female professors that i admire a lot. i befriended both grad students and fellow undergrads and realized that they weren't so different from me, and that they, too, were all too human. only after all of this was i able to accept that yes, i love physics, more so than a lot of other people, and much more than i thought i was allowed to, and i'm good at it, and it's where i belong, and it's what i'd like to dedicate the rest of my life to!

i remember reading a paper in my physics mentorship pedagogy class on how imposter syndrome manifests as a lack of identification between themselves and the communities they are seeking to join, and that's why marginalized identities are much more prone to imposter syndrome. it felt so profound when i first came across this idea. i felt...<em>seen</em>, somehow, by a research paper in gender and education. i really felt that. i know what it's like to choose, every single day, between who i really am and who i want to be, my identity and my dreams. and i know now that it doesn't have to be that way. i am really so lucky to be so sure of myself.

so here's me taking some time to appreciate that. that i know myself, that i'm free, that there are a bunch of labels which i now have the confidence to attach to myself at will, like female or non-binary or genderfluid (i'm somewhere there) or physicist or physicist-who-is-not-like-the-other-physicists or physicist-who-is-still-like-the-other-physicists. that i don't have to think so hard about questions like, <em>who am i?</em> 

because i know, now. that i am no one but myself—and she is more than enough for me 