---
layout: post
title: dear mom,
date: 2023-07-28
description: stories i tell in letters i don't send
tags: feelings 
categories: medium
---


> &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; But if it’s a story, even in my head, I must be telling it to someone. You don’t tell a story only to yourself. There’s always someone else.<br>
  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Even when there is no one. <br>
  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; A story is like a letter. Dear You, I’ll say. Just you, without a name...I will say you, you, you like an old love song—<br><br> <reg>(<it>The Handmaiden’s Tale</it>, Margaret Atwood)</reg>

You crossed an ocean to get here. 

Twenty-three years ago, from the airplane, you probably couldn’t tell how deep the waters sank, coasting far above the waves. I wonder if it felt lonely–forsaking your home for another you had yet to build across the world.

Do you remember the day I came out to you? It was half a year ago on this very blog. It was brand-new, at the time. You called me downstairs and you asked me what *that word* meant. 

I like telling this story like the whole thing was an accident. I like telling this story like I never meant for you to read *that word*, because that word was hidden in a labyrinth of half-blogs and poems in a language that wasn’t yours. It wasn’t yours because every time you stumbled across your english like a bumpy road, we–dad and our white neighbors and I and everyone–took another piece of it away from you.

The truth is I, I wanted you to feel *<b>pride</b>*. <it>Look</it>, I was saying. <it>Look at what I made. Look at my accomplishments, my resume, what I’ve been doing all this time at MIT, three thousand miles away from you. Look at how well you’ve raised me.</it>

*Look at who I really am.*

<b>Because you love me.</b> You love me more than anyone does, maybe more than anyone will, and certainly more than enough to comb through my labyrinth of half-blogs and poems, armed with Google translate, painstakingly switching between tabs at each sentence. I already knew that, deep down. I knew.

So you asked me what it meant to be *queer*. But you already knew what it meant, deep down. You knew. You were just confirming what the translator already told you. And I remember the tears rolling down your face. Your disbelief, shock into disgust. Thunderous silence. Tears rolling down my face. I asked you why you were crying. You said—

*You used to be the pride of our family. And now–*

And now, there’s another thing that separates us that we don’t talk about. We didn’t talk for a few days, after that conversation, and then you decided you’d pretend it never happened. I guess this is how we fight. Every time, I’m taking a piece of her away from you–the little girl you know and love, whose first spoken words were 鸭子(duck), a homophone for her name (丫丫), who wants to be better than her peers at everything but cries to you about making friends at school. She is I, so how I could I be *queer*? To you, queer is a word that rots like flesh, and there she was, slowly decaying away from you. You don’t like to admit it–that I’m going, growing away from you, carving out an identity that is not yours, but my own. 

Months later, my sister told me that you had come to terms with it. In your own way, of course—you still think it’s just a phase. But you won’t tell me any of that. Because it’s only when we dip our toes into these waters that we know how deep it goes. And we’ll pull each other to the bottom, again, with our mere, fragile, dissonant existences. 

So we keep our eyes shut and say I love you, to every version of each other that we’ve seen–unconditionally–as best as we can. Because this is how we love: coasting high above the waves.

<b>I love you, mom.</b> From the deepest bottom of my heart.

April 
(丫丫)