---
layout: post
title: on capitalization
date: 2023-07-02
description: or the lack thereof. why do i write like this?
tags: me-things
categories: medium
---

you might notice that most of the writing i’ll put up on the internet is written like this, and by this, i mean the intentional lack of capitalization, but otherwise (hopefully) correct grammar. you might be surprised to learn that when i journal on my own, i switch between writing with proper capitalization and writing in all lowercase, and most of the time i actually capitalize. so it’s not just that i write like this because i’m lazy, and it’s also not just because i want to feel quirky and real in some way, although these might both be contributing factors. 

i think these two stylistic choices reflect in some way my voices–my identities. i “speak” (write) with a different voice when i switch from one style to another. they represent two different sides of myself that i put quite a bit of effort into balancing–not leaning too hard into one or another all the time.

This is actually my default state. Surprisingly, it feels easier to write like this. Here is where I’m communicating precisely–almost scientifically. Of course, as a researcher and student, I use this voice in my work. I am rational, methodical, neither cold nor hot; I present my ideas in clear, logical steps. This mode is good for answering questions, writing papers, thinking about physics, and giving presentations, but also processing emotions, and especially recording events. That’s why I write like this when I journal most of the time. It’s easy to write about the facts–who was there, what happened when and where, how I felt, and so on. 

on the other hand, it’s harder to use this voice. i write like this when i write (non-scientific paper) things that have the potential to be put out to the world because, as i discovered when i went to mit, this is the real me. i am a scientist as much as i am genderfluid magical girl in a sundress twirling amongst flowers, an artist, a hopeless writer, an aspiring fashionista, a nerd a little *too* obsessed with [a certain soul-collector from the first-person shooter game VALORANT](https://playvalorant.com/en-gb/agents/reyna/)and [the pulsar timing array’s recent detection of nanohertz frequency gravitational waves](https://iopscience.iop.org/collections/apjl-230623-245-Focus-on-NANOGrav-15-year), among other things. and i am all of these things in that i like to imagine myself this way. this is my <em>romantic</em>, dreamy, whimsical voice, where i, with some intentionality, curate the story of my own life. in this mode i am a one-man show; i am the main character in the story of my life, of course, but i am also the lead actress, the director, the camera-man, the guy who yells “ROLLING!” and “CUT!”, and the post-production staff, all at once. you might ask how authentic am i being when i know i am romanticizing. but as i said, **this is the real me**. they are all the real me–and i’ll leave it at that.