---
layout: post
title: (mit blogger application) why do i write?
date: 2023-07-24
description: what happens when i attempt to answer prompts
tags: me-things feelings reflections
categories: long
---

##### (Prompt) Why do you want to be a blogger? Why do you write? 
<it> Blogging involves a community of people, generated by a practice of writing in public, and maintained by some sense of engagement between writers, the audience, and each other. What (or who) motivates you to write in public for other people? </it>

---

<br>

<big>I’ve always wanted to write.</big> Not that I don’t write; I do. I started writing, *really* writing–not for school or extracurriculars or my parents but for *me*–in high school. I did it because I felt alone. I didn’t know how to navigate all the hard things, like my emotions and mental health and identity. So I wrote. And the more I wrote, the more I loved writing, and the more my writing branched away from just word-vomits of overcooked feelings I didn’t understand. Writing is a lot of things, to me, now. Writing is telling my story, defining my story, being myself authentically, understanding myself, remembering who I am, holding myself to the version of me that I envision, fulfilling my calling in life, which is to make things beautiful, according to a [fun little personality test](https://www.dimensional.me/) that I took, and “things” certainly includes my life. 

But this kind of writing is not necessarily blogging, because I can fulfill these motivations by writing in a vacuum, on locked pages no one will read but me. Most of my writing is like this. Because my writing is unfettered, unpolished; a splatter of ink, cacophony. 

Let’s restart.

---

<big>I’ve always wanted to write.</big> Not that I don’t write; I do. But I don’t *really* write–not the kind of writing I want to write, anyway.

Four years ago, I came across the MIT blogs for the first time. Like many pre-frosh, I ended up coming to MIT because of them. They were so… human. I felt inspiration, I felt yearning, and most of all, I felt like I saw a reflection of my future self. Maybe that’s because the bloggers write for their past selves, too. And I’m here now, at MIT, older than most of the bloggers were four years ago. I’m still reading the [blogs](https://mitadmissions.org/blogs/entry/demons/). And I still see it–bits and pieces of myself, my friends, my stories, past, present, future.

> cj: i know. i know the feeling, okay? after all, i know what it’s like to think that your depression is caused by one thing. and then you remove that one thing, and you think your life’s gonna get better, but the depression’s still there. turns out it wasn’t caused by that one thing.

That’s the kind of writing I want to write. I want to write because writing can reach people. I know because they’ve reached me. Sentences and paragraphs that transcend words in the way they reach into my gut and unearth some raw, shattering little piece of me in geometrical, soul-crafted, calligraphical symphony. Words that leave an imprint on what I think it means to be human. Words that color the world a little more. Words that inspire me to read for the reasons that I write, and to write for the reasons that I read.

Anyway, all that is to say that I want to blog. <big>So why haven’t I done it already?</big>

---

...

There’s two ways I can answer this. 

My first answer is that I’m bad at blog writing. You see, I’ve always been bad with structure. In my life, I deal with this by designing my life to be as *<b>free</b>* as possible–free to change my daily routine every two weeks, run across Harvard Bridge at 3 am, skip lecture to get a mediocre corn dog in Allston, interrogate my best friend out of the blue about his red flags, or ask said friend out immediately after said interrogation, just because I want to. In writing, however, my badness in working with structure manifests in being bad at responding to prompts, at outlining and organization, at maintaining a consistent voice, at writing in long form, at repeated, laborious revision–at just sticking to one thing and doing it right. You can probably tell just by the way I’m answering these prompts. I think I’m on my 5th or 6th iteration, because as I write, my brain keeps popping out new, fun, interesting ideas like a laser pen, and then I have to chase them down like I’m some cat. And deep down, I’m not sure how cut out I am to be a writer, either. I’m too obsessive. Sometimes, I’ll stand in the shower for half an hour, brainstorming, and I’ll have an entire script laid out in my head, beautiful, flowy, with all the cool metaphors and wise adages I want to include. But when I actually sit down and and try to type them out, I freeze up. Oh, it’s not what I imagined–because what I imagined was some abstraction of what my writing would be, but projecting back from that abstraction onto a real document with real words has somehow made it sound silly. And while I’m reeling with cognitive dissonance, I’ll rewrite everything, over and over, highlighting, deleting, cutting, pasting, undoing, redoing, until I’ve chased the laser too far away, up the ceiling, and I’m hitting the wall. In the end, it’s just another scrap into the pile of *things-I’d-like-to-write-about*.

I suppose I’m not making a very good case for myself right now as a blogger. So how’s this for my second answer?

---

<big>I am a blogger!</big> *\*audible gasp\**

> These are not the droids you are looking for… 

Contrary to everything I just told you, I actually do have a blog. In fact, you’re reading it right now! Oh, what’s that? Um, it says, *this is not really a blog?* Wait wait, hear me out–

> from how i see it, blogs are *nice, coherent long-length* entries. i don't really like writing those. instead, i have a lot of short thoughts that i'll scribble down…most of the time, they don't make any sense–

(You shake your fist angrily[^1][^2]. Weren’t these exactly the problems I was talking about just a few paragraphs ago?) 

Okay, okay, guilty as charged. [Headspace](aqcheng.github.io/blog/) is not a blog in the conventional sense–it’s just a small collection of my relatively collected ideas[^3]. And yes, it’s the way that it is because of everything I was just berating myself for–being bad at responding to prompts, at outlining and organization, at maintaining a consistent voice, at writing in long form, at repeated, laborious revision, at just sticking to one thing and doing it right–

–and yet, here I am, right now, writing this *nice, coherent, long-length* blogpost. And here you are, right now, reading this *nice, coherent, long-length* blogpost. 

There is one last reason why I write.

---

<big>I’ve always wanted to be a blogger.</big>

Not just someone who blogs, but a *blog-person*–I want to be the kind of person who can, and does, blog. 

Blog-people are among the coolest people in the world. They can write, for one. And not only can they write, they can write about themselves, because they have flair and personality and storied lives and tangible identities, so when they spill their souls in ink, it looks beautiful. They’re the proud, shining ambassadors of their own histories.

Maybe they’re just pretending–maybe that would make me feel a little better about myself. I don’t think so, though. I think maybe *I’m* just pretending–pretending that I can’t be a blogger, pretending my stories aren’t worth sharing, pretending I’m not brave enough to push myself up on the stage and say, *hey, I’m April, and this is my story*. Because I’m scared that once I push myself up there, I’ll find out that it wasn’t me pretending.

So here’s my attempt to stop pretending that I can’t write. After all, blogging isn’t about answering prompts and adhering to structure–it’s about being me, freely, openly, and authentically, and perhaps it’s the best expression of being *free*, just one that I never gave myself a fair shot at. I don’t know. You tell me, mysterious reader–Petey or high council of MIT bloggers or humble visitor of my little blog. You tell me.

<b>Can I write?</b>

<br>

[^1]: You’re probably not doing this. In fact, you’re definitely not doing this. This is my RPG, and you’re the main character now. Just kidding, I am. Or not?
[^2]: Did my style just change? I’m using footnotes and I’m even trying to be funny now. It’s because I just ate dinner. 
[^3]: which are just a tiny subset of the larger collection of the thoughts I jot down, with varying degrees of collected-ness, which are an even smaller subset of my collective stream of consciousness. Yes, I did make this footnote just to use a derivative of “collect” five times in one sentence.